hi miss Barney can BBC good food and
welcome to boss the basics where we take
cooking techniques right back to the
basics we're talking about things like
frying eggs making an omelet at the
basic way to roast a chicken and in this
one I'm going to be making a cheap
Spanish omelet now please please please
don't write him we know this isn't the
authentic way to make a Spanish omelet
or a tortilla but we are going to do a
cheats version which involves a bag of
crisps and some eggs so first we need to
start by cracking our eggs into a pot
that a pan you use is really important
on this as well you want a trustworthy
non-stick pan so are you be cracking
about eight eggs into a powerful eight
eggs is perfect for this here is our
first off the basic tip when you are
cracking eggs into a ball do not and
it's very tempting to do this do not
crack them against the side of the bowl
that way there is more chance for shell
going into your bowl when you are
cracking an egg straight into evolve you
crack it onto a flat surface first that
way you also get an even crack which is
easier to open
so remember never against the side of
the bowl on a flat surface I'm going to
do it against the border so here we go
see how that cracks neatly
now we're just going to whisk up our
eggs we want the whites and the yolks to
be completely combined salt pepper to
that now we're going to add three bags
three small bags of ready salted crisps
don't worry
just hold it feeds about four to five
people to three so that's about I don't
know about 75 grams of crisps so we're
just going to fold the crisps proves we
want them to soak into the egg
so now we're just going to put our pan
on a medium heat and we want to heat up
we taught it to what we just want it
kind of shimmering a little bit about
two tablespoons of olive oil and then
that goes so that around the pan you see
it starting to split so we know the oils
getting hot so that goes in the pan and
now it's just a matter of leaving it to
cook as it starts to cook we're just
going to keep on bringing the edges into
the middle and then moving it around a
bit and then I'm a confident that is
cooking through we are just going to
leave it to cook just waiting for all of
this to be practically set maybe we do
want it a little bit runny in the middle
but not not totally raw we're gonna get
a plate plate it's going to go over our
pan and then we're gonna turn the heat
off we're going to get a cloth and the
cloth is going to go like so and then
three to one over it goes and hopefully
the gods are cooking or smiling at us
which they are the tortilla has come out
beautifully push it all from the plate
back into the pan make sure you get it
all in there
like so and then it's just a matter of
giving that a minute or two more and as
that cooks because we want to get that
shape to it we're just going to keep on
talking it in so our cheese tortillas
had about two more minutes and just as
we did before we're going to flip it
round to serve it's up to you if you do
this on a plate I'm going to do it on a
board and just need to get something
that's going to cover the pan rabbit
eater and then it's just the case of
doing them again so three two one
OOP there we go big reveal how's it
looking that looks pretty perfect to me
so there we go can you see that look at
that Spanish omelette cheats Spanish
omelette made with nothing more than
some eggs and a couple of bags of crisps
so there we have it
I'm just going to slice it up and that's
absolutely delicious warm or equally
delicious cold I really like it and like
a crusty sandwich with lots of
mayonnaise but it's up to you how you
want it cut it into big wedges for lunch
or for dinner or cut it into small cubes
and have it at a pass but there you go
there is our cheap Spanish omelette made
with eggs and crisps this is austere
basics I'm Barney thank you very much
for watching
[Music]
you